---
permalink: /posts/14-dont-hate-your-ticketing-system.html
title: Don't Hate Your Ticketing System
layout: post
---

The traditional methodology of software deployment, still alive and well in
corporate America, is a process defined and managed by issuing tickets. These
tickets allow other teams to perform functions that a single developer, or team,
cannot perform on their own. It is also very manual and requires more reviews
than is absolutely necessary. You may think that I am against tickets, reviews,
or the process entirely, but you would only be partially right.

I am against unnecessary work. I am 100% in favor of building systems and
processes to support them that allow for business goals to be accomplished. Most
businesses have the goal of *NOT* losing money. It has been my experience that
the larger the company, the more process is required, which means more tickets
for a growing number of teams to perform their specific functions. It is not
fun. However, given the size of a company, and the number of zeroes in the
revenue column, the process generally grows larger. This is not a function of
stopping progress. It is a function of stopping mistakes that could cause some
form of loss, monetarily or otherwise.

Maybe you have written, or you utilize, the greatest automation system ever
created. It builds, packages, and then deploys your software to the specified
environments. No matter how automated you are there are still tickets that need
to created and approved. Reviews must happen, even if they are automated, to
record the review in the ticketing system. Regardless of the system you use or
how the workflow is set up, somebody, or something, in your organization cares
about that system. So should you.

The tickets and their history are there for others in your organization. Not
you. You may not care about a change request ticket and think it is truly a CYA
activity for moving your software through environments. It kinda of is but not
really. Those tickets exist for others to perform their job. You may not know
them, depending upon the size of your organization, but they do exist. They are
doing their job , much like yourself. They may not operate as fast as you would
like. When working with ticketing systems, nobody does anything as fast as you
would like. It is an inefficient communication system, but it is a communication
system.

Trust me, if something were to break, folks will begin to look at those tickets
to try and figure out what happened. Ticketing systems are the shared
consciousness of an organization. If something happens there is probably a
ticket. If you encounter an individual who asks for a ticket to do something,
pretty much anything (you know the type), they are not trying to avoid work.
They are trying to document their work in the established system that the
organization uses. Don't hate it. It just makes using it that much worse.

If the process is truly broken you should try and fix it. If you don't get to
fix it, at least there will be a ticket with the request documenting that you
tried. That and $1 should get you a cup of coffee at McDonald's. 
