---
permalink: /posts/25-tracking-a-daily-coding-habit-with-the-github-contribution-graph.html
title: Tracking a Daily Coding Habit with the GitHub Contributions Graph
layout: post
---

I use the GitHub contributions graph to help sustain my new habit of writing
code every day. If I push a change then it gets tracked for me. I like automated
systems so this seemed perfect. It has been a month and my track record is
pretty good. I seriously only missed a single day, and yes, it was planned.
However, I have noticed that today's changes are not marked off as a
contribution?

![GitHub Contribution Graph](/assets/img/25-github-contribution-graph.png)

You can see that I was pretty horrible at *writing code* during this past year.
I am sure you have told yourself that you code a lot. I think we like delude
ourselves like that sometimes. I am professional developer, so I do write code
every day. Some days I could not tell what project it was for when mixed into
work versus personal project code (the time spent writing code tends to blur the
lines).

I needed a system. GitHub has a system. GitHub was not tracking my changes that
I pushed on a branch. What?

It is clearly documented [here][1] that you need to push your changes to the
main branch of a repository. If not pushed directly (shame on you) then a pull
request will also trigger an update to the contribution graph.

Nice! I was using this graph to track my habit of writing code every day. Now I
need a new strategy to keep track of blog posts and code I've been working on. I
wake at 5AM and write code for at least 1/2 hour. That is the goal. It is
generally longer than that ... thankfully. That is the habit I am working on. It
has made tremendous progress on the amount of code I produce for sure. This is
designed to be that way according to James Clear [here][4] and [here][2].

So this post came to be. I pushed it to main so I don't have to track it
manually.

[1]:https://docs.github.com/en/account-and-profile/setting-up-and-managing-your-github-profile/managing-contribution-graphs-on-your-profile/why-are-my-contributions-not-showing-up-on-my-profile
[2]:https://jamesclear.com/second-mistake
[3]:https://bulletjournal.com/
[4]:https://jamesclear.com/stop-procrastinating-seinfeld-strategy
